# Possession via Dissociation
### From Within

Possession and switching is all about dissociating from the body and letting 
another mind (tulpa, servitor, egregore or whatever is going to possess) 
associate with the body, effectively putting them in charge of it.

Dissociation is the art of being able to release control from the body. This is 
done by relaxing and focusing on letting your arm go numb.

Possession and switching of course can be done by one of many methods. Other 
methods that people have described haven't worked for us, so we are describing 
what works for us (TM).

This is an entirely mental trick and the symbolism used in this guide is what 
we believe is the best way to describe the process to others. You are 
effectively learning to not move the body and let it move on its own; in a way 
forgetting it exists.

This guide is not the only way to do this, there are many, many ways to do 
possession and switching; however, this is what works for us.

## How to Dissociate

Dissociation, possession and switching can be a scary idea for some people 
(the author included) as you are effectively giving up control of the body to 
someone else. There needs to be **a lot** of trust between your system for this 
to work at all. Building trust internally is another topic and out of the scope 
for this guide.

### Before Starting

Make sure distractions such as cell phones and other electronic devices are in 
silent mode (not vibrate -- that has gotten us a few times) and if possible let 
people around you know you are relaxing and don't want to be disturbed. This 
also can help give a nervous mind a feeling of safety when possessing for the 
first time when others are around.

### Relaxation

Before you do anything, the first step is to take some deep breaths and relax. 
The cycle we use for deep breathing is something like this:

| Time      | Step       |
|:----------|:-----------|
| 8 seconds | Inhale     |
| 2 seconds | Hold it in |
| 8 seconds | Exhale     |
| 2 seconds | Rest       |

### Dissociation

Now, once you have relaxed, focus on the part of the body you want to 
dissociate. You have complete control of this body part right now. Visualize 
this as the body part filled with a color that represents you. Internally the 
color for us is just a thought-pointer to our actual essence or the raw 
description of that mind to the others.

This process will temporarily detach a part of the body from a mind's awareness 
of the body.

Start to drain or filter out the color (whichever feels easiest for you), very 
slowly at first. Let the feelings of relaxation pulse through it and let 
yourself drain out of the body part. Continue the long, drawn out deep breaths. 
Let it go, don't think about the body part being a part of you anymore. Your 
body part might feel heavier or weird as you do this, this is very good and can 
be very freaky at first. Keep at it though, the feeling of dissociation and it 
being limp is what you are looking for. Some people we know describe it as 
being limp, others as it being heavy, even others as it being numb, but it is 
a very obvious feeling.

It is best to *not* immediately jump into possession after getting dissociated 
until you are used to the feeling of it. Let the body part rest where it is and 
watch tv or do other normal things without that body part. This helps associate 
that absence of the body part is normal and nothing to be afraid about. This 
also lets you get used to the feelings that possession will give you.

Don't rush doing this at first, don't feel bad about taking 15 minutes the 
first time to get dissociated. It initially took us 15 minutes to get the 
body's right arm (the one we have done dissociation with the most) properly 
dissociated, but it is taking less and less time with more practice.

## Possession

Possession after this is easy to explain and sometimes can be interesting to 
implement. You effectively let the other mind control the part of the body you 
are dissociated with. After the body part is dissociated and you are used to 
the feeling of dissociation (spend a day with an arm numb watching shows on 
netflix or something similar, also a good time to get caught up on your movie 
queue), ask your tulpa to associate their color with the body part. Other 
symbolic methods that work are asking them to stick their body part inside the 
body's matching part, "wearing" the body as a suit. If your tulpa normally has 
a nonhuman form, it can help for them to temporarily take on a human form; but 
as always your mileage may vary as it works for us (tm). 

This may frighten you, be prepared for a slight fear/panic reaction. If this 
happens, ask your tulpa to give you the body part back, re-associate (see 
below), and then go relax for half an hour (without dissociating) and try 
again.

### Advice to Tulpas

Start with very little movements that are very spaced out. Any too big 
movements too suddenly may re-associate your host with the body part out of 
habit. The idea here is to assert that the body part moving without your host 
telling it to is okay. Some movements might re-associate your host a little. If 
this happens but your host isn't completely re-associated with it, let it rest 
and your dissociation come back. It is like a gauge. If you have too much 
trouble with it, don't feel bad about stopping for a bit and trying again 
later. The important part is to keep practicing and you will get better over 
time. Slowly work up to bigger and bigger parts of the body, then you can get 
full-body possession, which is just one small step away from switching. 

## Re-association

This is doing the opposite of the earlier dissociation step, re-attaching back 
to the part of the body that was dissociated. When re-associating, you might be 
tempted to just start moving the body part again as normal. This is a bad idea 
and a bad habit to get into. Ask permission to take back the body part and then 
start to fill it back with your color. 

Once you get to about halfway full, start to do little movements with the body 
part. Test it a little. Don't wrench it around.

Once the body part is full of your presence, shake it gently to end the 
dissociation and fully re-associate yourself with it. Your body part may feel 
weird for a little bit after all this, that is your mind getting used to the 
body part again.

Another method is for you to stick your dissociated body part back into the 
body, much like a glove or other coverings.

After re-associating, do things that you like to do, look in a mirror, be you. 
It helps assert to your brain that it is time for you and you alone to be back 
in control.

## Other Notes

It should go without saying but this is a technique that requires a bit of 
practice and a lot of persistence. Failure is going to happen at some point and 
you will succeed eventually given you keep at it and work through the initial 
steps.

It is normal and sometimes weird, but your limb may feel cold or otherwise 
abnormally altered after a dissociation/possession session is complete. The 
feeling should pass in a few hours or by the time you wake up the next day. 
Sometimes after doing dissociation for a while the body parts (such as legs) 
may start dissociating on their own when you are reclined or not using them for 
extended periods of time. Let this happen, the goal is to get used to the 
feeling.

We have created [a script that helps with timing deep breaths](http://sprunge.us/WeCJ)
that can be run in any lua interpreter that has the socket module installed. See 
relevant documentation for your lua install or operating system on how to use 
this. It is just a simple timer for an 18 second deep breath cycle, peaking at 
the 5th instruction and anti-peaking at the 9th instruction. We are told that 
a friend is making a web version of this script.

Possession or switching around other people can be awkward if they don't know. 
Avoid doing it unless you have no other choice.

Something that might help with dissociation would be laying down. A lot of 
tulpamancers have reported that this method works best for them when they are 
laying down.`Having a long music track (such as a prearranged music mix) can 
help to distract the host while they are dissociating.

## Colophon

Many thanks to Neguilla, Malfael's servitor for a lot of guidance in creating 
this guide. This guide may be copied freely to other sites or guide 
repositories given that credit is given and any edits are clearly marked as 
such.

A lot of this guide was written by Ashley, the later revisions were written by 
Ashley herself. This guide was written mainly in vim using the vim-human 
markdown macros.

To contact the author, please connect to `irc.tulpa.info` with any IRC client, 
join `#tulpa` and ask for Within.

